---
layout: post
title: "K8s CNI"
date: 2019-09-06 14:25:06
description: Kubernetes cni, cnm
tags:
 - k8s
---

**cni**
So what is CNI? To put it succinctly, it is an interface between a network namespace and network plugin. A container runtime (eg. Docker, Rocket) is a network namespace. Network Plugin is the implementation that follows the CNI specification to take a container runtime and configure (attach, detach) it to the network, that the plugin implements.

**cni parameters**
- cniVersion: The version of the CNI spec in which the definition works with
- name: The network name
- type: The name of the plugin you wish to use.  In this case, the actual name of the plugin executable
args: Optional additional parameters
- ipMasq: Configure outbound masquerade (source NAT) for this network
- ipam:
  - type: The name of the IPAM plugin executable
  - subnet: The subnet to allocate out of (this is actually part of the IPAM plugin)
  - routes:
    - dst: The subnet you wish to reach
    - gw: The IP address of the next hop to reach the dst.  If not specified the default gateway for the subnet is assumed
- dns:
  - nameservers: A list of nameservers you wish to use with this network
  - domain: The search domain to use for DNS requests
  - search: A list of search domains
  - options: A list of options to be passed to the receiv

**plugins supplied**
- Main: interface-creating
bridge: Creates a bridge, adds the host and the container to it.
ipvlan: Adds an ipvlan interface in the container.
loopback: Set the state of loopback interface to up.
macvlan: Creates a new MAC address, forwards all traffic to that to the container.
ptp: Creates a veth pair.
vlan: Allocates a vlan device.
host-device: Move an already-existing device into a container.

- IPAM: IP address allocation
dhcp: Runs a daemon on the host to make DHCP requests on behalf of the container
host-local: Maintains a local database of allocated IPs
static: Allocate a static IPv4/IPv6 addresses to container and it's useful in debugging purpose.

- other plugins:
flannel: Generates an interface corresponding to a flannel config file
tuning: Tweaks sysctl parameters of an existing interface
portmap: An iptables-based portmapping plugin. Maps ports from the host's address space to the container.
bandwidth: Allows bandwidth-limiting through use of traffic control tbf (ingress/egress).
sbr: A plugin that configures source based routing for an interface (from which it is chained).
firewall: A firewall plugin which uses iptables or firewalld to add rules to allow traffic to/from the container.


[cni](https://github.com/containernetworking/plugins)

**Container network**
[refer](https://success.docker.com/article/networking)

**libnetwork**
[refer](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2016/01/why-kubernetes-doesnt-use-libnetwork/)

**cnm**
[compare](https://www.nuagenetworks.net/blog/container-networking-standards/)
[cnm](https://github.com/docker/libnetwork/blob/master/docs/design.md)
[cni](https://rancher.com/blog/2019/2019-03-21-comparing-kubernetes-cni-providers-flannel-calico-canal-and-weave/)
