---
layout: post
title: "K8s upgrade"
date: 2019-09-11 01:25:06
description: Kubernetes cluster upgrading
tags:
 - k8s
---

Basically, there are 6 steps need to follow: 
- checking prerequisite, like api/docker 
- backup etcd and cluster both
- upgrading control plane nodes
- upgrade plugin components, like cannal/metrics server/coredns
- upgrading worker nodes
- verify cluster status.*

[offical refer](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade-1-15/)
[other refer](https://platform9.com/blog/kubernetes-upgrade-the-definitive-guide-to-do-it-yourself/)

**How does it work**

> kubeadm upgrade apply

- Checks that your cluster is in an upgradeable state:
    The API server is reachable
    All nodes are in the Ready state
    The control plane is healthy
- Enforces the version skew policies.
- Makes sure the control plane images are available or available to pull to the machine.
- Upgrades the control plane components or rollbacks if any of them fails to come up.
- Applies the new kube-dns and kube-proxy manifests and makes sure that all necessary RBAC rules are created.
- Creates new certificate and key files of the API server and backs up old files if they’re about to expire in 180 days.

> kubeadm upgrade node on control plane nodes:
- Fetches the kubeadm ClusterConfiguration from the cluster.
- Optionally backups the kube-apiserver certificate.
- Upgrades the static Pod manifests for the control plane components.
- Upgrades the kubelet configuration for this node.

> kubeadm upgrade node on worker nodes:
- Fetches the kubeadm ClusterConfiguration from the cluster.
- Upgrades the kubelet configuration for this node.

