---
layout: post
title: "AWS VPC"
date: 2020-08-14 10:25:06
description: aws, vpc, Virtual Private Cloud
tags:
 - cloud
---

**aws vpc faq**
[refer](https://aws.amazon.com/vpc/faqs/)

**components**
```
A Virtual Private Cloud: A logically isolated virtual network in the AWS cloud. You define a VPC’s IP address space from ranges you select.
Subnet: A segment of a VPC’s IP address range where you can place groups of isolated resources.
Internet Gateway: The Amazon VPC side of a connection to the public Internet.
NAT Gateway: A highly available, managed Network Address Translation (NAT) service for your resources in a private subnet to access the Internet.
Virtual private gateway: The Amazon VPC side of a VPN connection.
Peering Connection: A peering connection enables you to route traffic via private IP addresses between two peered VPCs.
VPC Endpoints: Enables private connectivity to services hosted in AWS, from within your VPC without using an Internet Gateway, VPN, Network Address Translation (NAT) devices, or firewall proxies.
Egress-only Internet Gateway: A stateful gateway to provide egress only access for IPv6 traffic from the VPC to the Internet.
```

**subnet/AZs**
A VPC spans all of the Availability Zones in the Region. After creating a VPC, you can add one or more subnets in each Availability Zone.
 Each subnet must reside entirely within one Availability Zone and cannot span zones. Availability Zones are distinct locations that are engineered to be isolated from failures in other Availability Zones.

**igw/routetable/nat**
- igw:...., matching VPC
An internet gateway is a horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC component that allows communication between your VPC and the internet.
An internet gateway serves two purposes: to provide a target in your VPC route tables for internet-routable traffic, and to perform network address translation (NAT) for instances that have been assigned public IPv4 addresses.

- nat gw: stay in public subnet , allocate elasticip(wan ip)
The instances in the public subnet can send outbound traffic directly to the Internet, whereas the instances in the private subnet can't. Instead, the instances in the private subnet can access the Internet by using a network address translation (NAT) gateway that resides in the public subnet. The database servers can connect to the Internet for software updates using the NAT gateway, but the Internet cannot establish connections to the database servers.
 
- rt: each subnet has its own route table, public subnet needs igw for its default rt 0.0.0.0/0, private subnet needs NAT gw for its default rt 0.0.0.0/0
A route table contains a set of rules, called routes, that are used to determine where network traffic from your subnet or gateway is directed

**Elastic IP**
An Elastic IP address is a static, public IPv4 address designed for dynamic cloud computing. You can associate an Elastic IP address with any instance or network interface for any VPC in your account. With an Elastic IP address, you can mask the failure of an instance by rapidly remapping the address to another instance in your VPC. Note that the advantage of associating the Elastic IP address with the network interface instead of directly with the instance is that you can move all the attributes of the network interface from one instance to another in a single step.
dns->eip(attached to lb)->lb(forward:target group/targets)->ec2 nodes/ports(public ingress/traefik)

**VPC endpoints**
- endpoints
A VPC endpoint enables you to privately connect your VPC to supported AWS services and VPC endpoint services powered by AWS PrivateLink without requiring an internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection. Instances in your VPC do not require public IP addresses to communicate with resources in the service. Traffic between your VPC and the other service does not leave the Amazon network.
if you dc connect directly to aws dc

- endpoint services (AWS PrivateLink)
You can create your own application in your VPC and configure it as an AWS PrivateLink-powered service (referred to as an endpoint service). Other AWS principals can create a connection from their VPC to your endpoint service using an interface VPC endpoint. You are the service provider, and the AWS principals that create connections to your service are service consumers.
