---
layout: post
title: CDN
date: 2021-10-13 09:25:06
description: Content Delivery Networks 
tags: 
 - cloud
---

**Caching static assets**
CDNs are the caching layer that is closest to the user.

**Benefit**
1, help reduce the load on our servers by removing the burden of serving static / bandwidth intensive resources
2, let us be present closer to our users
3, let us do geo-load balancing, in case we have multiple data centres around the world, and would want to serve from the closest data center (DC) possible.

**Points of Presence(POP)**
CDN POPs are geographically distributed data centers aimed at being close to users. 
POPs typically may not have all the content, but have caching servers that cache the static assets, and fetch the rest of the content from the origin server where the application actually resides. 

**Sticky Routing**
It might be simply pinning all users to a specific DC or pinning specific users to specific servers. This is typically done from the POP, so that as soon as the user enters reaches our servers, we can route them to the nearest DC possible.

**Geo DNS**
When a user opens the application, the user can be directed to one of the multiple globally distributed POPs. This can be done using GeoDNS, which simply put, gives out a different IP address(which are distributed geographically), depending on the location of the user making the DNS request.

[refer](https://linkedin.github.io/school-of-sre/level102/system_design/scaling-beyond-the-datacenter/)
